
# Catalog3: Release Notes

**Latest Download Link:**

[https://mega.nz/file/ry5hnJJR#xiHkQMqswBwBpRoZ6uyi972xyuBIisGUWPvbuKgkLjc](https://mega.nz/file/ry5hnJJR#xiHkQMqswBwBpRoZ6uyi972xyuBIisGUWPvbuKgkLjc)

# Revisions:

* V2.1: [https://mega.nz/file/ry5hnJJR#xiHkQMqswBwBpRoZ6uyi972xyuBIisGUWPvbuKgkLjc](https://mega.nz/file/ry5hnJJR#xiHkQMqswBwBpRoZ6uyi972xyuBIisGUWPvbuKgkLjc)
* V2.0: [https://mega.nz/file/PioBGTCQ#HVxKQDixcHh8yGjDP5ck232n\_5SvUmETL\_L34dKaOMU](https://mega.nz/file/PioBGTCQ#HVxKQDixcHh8yGjDP5ck232n_5SvUmETL_L34dKaOMU)

# Summary:

* Create your own catalogs (Capture mode).
* Switch between outfits, hairstyles and morphs easily.
* Create catalogs to save and share in your own scenes (I grant thee permission to do it).
* Generate new faces, or other morphs in Mutations mode.

# Description

This is an upgraded version of the Mutations Catalogger that I released a while ago. The main features included being able to create random faces, and to screen capture them creating a catalog of faces that you could switch between easily. You can capture clothes and hair styles aswell.

## Improvements in 2.0 include:

* Can now capture screenshots in VR mode (**WARNING: VAM must be maximized on desktop**)
* Can now save catalog to file, load from file, and automatically saves and loads with scene.
* Can minimize, maximize, move and hide catalog.
* Can attach to HUD, or attach to an object in the scene.
* Can "sort" images by adding weight (green button) or remove (red button)

## Revision Notes 2.1

\- Fixed weird scrolling and dragging issues. Fixed catalog in HUD global angle problem- Added Favorited number to green button. Added message triggering for catalog version parity (tells you if your plugin is out of date when opening a newer catalog). Renamed "Mutations Mode" to "Face-Gen" mode. Added tooltip display for what mode is active (hover over mode button). Added tooltip display version messaging. \*Added Mode: Scene-Directory mode (displays the scenes in the current folder, and can redirect you to that scene by clicking). Added Control: Custom image button. Added Control: Transparency toggle. Added Friendly naming to auto-save files (uses the name you give in the plugin textbox)

## Modes

* ***View Mode***: This removes any extra buttons and just shows the catalog. Nice for sharing in scenes when you're done creating the perfect catalog.
* ***Capture mode***: Gives you the "Capture" button which allows you to capture the current state of the atom. In the plugin settings you can choose to include
   * Clothing items
   * Hair styles
   * Mutation morphs (morphs generated by the mutations generator)
* ***Face-Gen Mode***: Generates a number of random faces based on the selected morph options, variance, and count in the plugin settings.
* ***Scenes-Directory Mode***: Shows all scene images in the current folder, and allows you to switch to the scenes.

## Setting Description

**Catalog Settings**

* Catalog Mode: (described above in *Modes)*
* Reset Catalog: Removes all catalog entries.
* Catalog Columns: Select how many horizontal entries you want in each row.
* Transparency: Set the transpartency of the catalog images. (Usefull for when you want to overlay an image over you model)
* Active Camera: (buggy) Select the camera to screenshot with.
* Visible: Hides the in-game UI if unchecked
* Always Face Me: Makes the in-game UI 2-D so that it always appears flat despite the scene angle.
* Anchor on HUD: Attaches the UI to the HUD.
* Anchor on Atom: Attaches the UI to the selected object in the scene.

**Capture settings** (for Capture Mode)

* Capture: Captures the state of the current scene (same as the in-game Capture button)
* Capture Hair: Include the current hair style when capturing
* Capture Clothes: Include the current clothing items when capturing the scene
* Capture generated morphs: Include any generated mutations (from Mutations mode)
* Remove Unused Items: The items for each catalog entry appear in the right column of the settings. You can deselect them but they won't go away. This button will remove unselected items from the entry permanently. Nice for cleaning out items captured by accident.
* Select custom image: Allows you to select your own image from file for the catalog entry.

**Face-Gen Settings** (for Face-Gen Mode)

* Generate Random Mutations: Generates a sequence of mutations and lists them in the catalog (Same as "GENERATE RANDOM MUTATIONS" UI button)
* Generate entries: The number of random mutations to generate when using the "Generate Random Mutations" function.
* The amount of time to wait from applying the mutation to screen-capturing the scene. There are some morphs which, when changed, will upset the scene, and it may take some time for the scene to settle again. Adjusting this value specifies how long to wait after applying the mutation. If you don't wait long enough then you'll capture the scene in an active state. Whether you need to adjust this setting depends really on what morphs you're updating.
* Mutation Variance: Adjusts how much morphs can be possibly changed when generating random mutations. The values are still random though so you're not guaranteed to get more extreme changes, it just increases the likelihood.
* Retry mutation: Remove the previous mutation, and generate 1 new mutation.
* Undo mutation: Remove the previous mutation.
* Keep Mutation: Sets the current mutation so that the next mutation occurs on top of the current mutation.
* Retry Hair: Applies a random hair style.
* Add Clothing Item: Adds a random Clothing Item
* Retry Clothing Item: Removes the previously added clothing item, and add a new clothing item.
* Undo Clothing: Removes the previously added clothing item.
* Add Whole Appearance: Adds a morph, clothing item and hair item.

**Morph Selection**

...the morphs that you want the random morph generator to use.

&#x200B;

# Credits:

Special thanks to "**chokaphi**" for the "**Active Morphs plugin"** which provided the initial UIHelper logic.[https://www.reddit.com/r/VAMscenes/comments/c3rwuc/activemorphs\_a\_plugin\_to\_show\_only\_active\_morphs/](https://www.reddit.com/r/VAMscenes/comments/c3rwuc/activemorphs_a_plugin_to_show_only_active_morphs/)

# Patreon Page

[Patreon Page](https://patreon.com/user?0=u&1=%3D&2=3&3=0&4=0&5=1&6=7&7=1&8=2&9=8&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=creatorshare)